Now for the last at least,
lecture topic of the day.
And this is actually my personal favorite,
I never thought I would say this.
It's so weird to say that you
love documentation, but I do.
I'm gonna show you guys the power of TDDs.
And if you don't know what a TDD is,
don't worry, I'm gonna explain it to you.
So TDD is basically
a technical design document.
A technical design document is a document
that describes how a piece of software
will be implemented, and how it will work.
Typically includes detailed information
about the system's architecture, modules,
interfaces and data structures
as well as information about
any external dependencies or
required resources.
Spoiler, before I go any further, does
it say anything about using technology?
[LAUGH].
No.
There's a reason for that, again, because
we want to start with the problem and
we want to use the right tool to do that.
Hopefully, the TDD will help us get there.
So as I said, basically, a TDD in summary
is what we want to accomplish, right?
And it's how we're going
to accomplish that and
it's really as hopefully as simple
as terms as you can possibly get.
You want a technical document to be
readable by pretty much anybody in
the company.
And I really believe that writing
documentation itself is like its own art.
You can write technical document, two
different ways, and one will get approved
and one will get thrown out the window and
they can be exact same problem.
But how you write it,
how you portray the issue, or
portray the thing to the person reading
it what's actually majorly important.
And this is why technical
design documents can be so
powerful is because they
can literally be the swing
factors in any kind of
decision making at a company.
And as I said, a technical design
document is used as a guide or
used to guide the development of
a software system and can be used to
communicate the technical aspects of the
system to the stakeholders and developers.
So as I said, it requires you to be
able to convey what you need to.
But what happens in a scenario where
you're trying to sell something so
big, that you literally have
to get business involved?
How do you do that?
Well, technical design document
can still accomplish that for you.
It really can.
You just simply change it so
that the stakeholders also
can get buy in through it.
Putting information in there related
to how this is gonna save us money, or
cut down on this or that it sounds really
silly but, hey, business loves money and
if you can show them how they can save it,
they will buy in very quickly.
And sometimes that's all you need.
Another thing about technical design
documents is it's about who you're
writing it for.
Business also normally doesn't really
care about a thesis on why you think we
should use Kubernetes.
They normally just care more so on,
hey, what are the hot points and
why should I care?
So sometimes the technical design
document can be paragraphs.
Sometimes it can be much larger.
But it is really used to communicate the
technical aspect to other stakeholders or
developer.
So we gonna start with your
first technical design document.
Now, as I've kind of said already with
DevOps from at least my experience,
there's no real standardized
way of writing documentation.
You could try and
get as close as you can but
the reality of it is you're
still gonna be in your own.
We're all just trying to figure out how
to communicate what you're trying to
communicate to people.
The best advice I've ever given was to
focus only on the specific issue or
problem.
I started out writing technical design
documents where I would start going down
a bunch of different other paths and
then I'd have this huge thing and
then I'd hand it over and
then they'd just be like unreadable.
[LAUGH].
So having clear and
concise focus on the problem and
what you're trying to
solve is super important.
Asking yourself the problem,
what is the problem, right?
And tell a story around that.
Set proper boundaries if you need to and
include an out of scope section when you
discover items outside of the current
issues problem resolution path.
And that's really important.
If you are working with something that's
got tons of technology around it and
things like that,
you really have to set your scope.
[LAUGH].
Otherwise you might find yourself in
a scenario where, you have a bunch
of creep as we call it of different issues
starting to come in and things like that.
And if you write a technical document that
basically makes you write three other
technical documents, then you might have
just discovered a whole other problem that
you can't even get to until you
first deal with those other one.
Another thing that's really powerful about
TDD is to apply existing practices to
problem solving with the organization's
already agreed upon, right?
So if you use the three W's strategy
to solve your problem at a company,
then nobody should be able to argue with
you your technical document was written
around those strategies, right?
Again, DevOps is very much
about communication and
getting people interested and
open minded to what you're trying to do.
If you find yourself in a circumstance
where that's difficult, leaning on things
like this, the three W's, or the things
like that can be super helpful to
just state your argument and not really
have to deal with as much pushback.
And this can be anything, it can be,
we decided to do this or
stick within these terms.
It's just making sure that
you're re-establishing what
the company has already agreed upon
to help you with your argument.
So I did do a little bit of
a breakdown for you on what I think
are some helpful things when
writing a technical document.
For starters,
what problem are we trying to solve?
That should always be there.
As a matter of fact,
you literally can write that as your
first header [LAUGH] if you want always.
If you do not know what problem you're
trying to solve, close the laptop and
go outside.
It because you're not ready to
start solving that problem yet.
You really need to be able to know what
you're solving and honestly you can save
yourself a lot of time by just simply
asking yourself that question first.
The other two are gonna be optional,
but I do think they are pretty helpful,
which is asking yourself,
what is the current process, right?
How do we currently do things?
Break that down.
Look at it.
Understand it.
Do you know how we're doing well?
Do you know how we're failing?
Does the company know
how we're doing that?
And to give you a really good example
of this, I was tasked at my company not
too long ago to basically revolutionize
how we do front-end deployments.
Because we don't want to have our
front-ends in containers anymore,
which is in there right now.
So I sat down,
wrote this huge technical document
on how we could get ourselves there.
And about halfway through what is the
current process, I thought of realizing
that there was a lot of organizational
decisions that were made, and
that's why we are where we are.
So, I guess what I need to say is if
there are decisions that have been
made outside of your scope, but
it's related to what you're working on,
those can be very impactful.
In my circumstance I found out that
we actually have a hybrid scenario
where we have back end teams that
work together to create products.
But then front end teams
are completely isolated.
So if you've ever worked
in development and
you think about teams that have their own
silos for every project they work on but
then your back ends are all collaboration,
you have completely different fundamentals
on how things are being built.
You have teams that are focusing on
very small specific problems and
technologies and then they don't care
about sharing those technologies or
anything like that, right?
Versus back end or
other parts of the infrastructure where
those are very well shared, right?
What do you do?
That's up to you.
In my circumstance,
I made the plain argument which is a tough
one to sell which is,
we need somebody there to do that?
Basically we kind of realized that
we didn't have a principal engineer
somebody there that was guiding
front end like we had in back end.
Again, what is the current process
can be massively powerful with that.
What are the requirements?
This is another thing
that can help you a lot.
So again, for example, if you're trying
to propose using a specific type of
technology, maybe to solve your problem,
again, not what I would suggest, but
if it is something go like, okay,
I know I want to use this, whatever.
Does it fit your requirements?
I know I've been making fun of Kubernetes,
but it's honestly a really good example.
Because a lot of times Kubernetes
is not normally within
the requirements of what actually
just simply needs to be done.
And I would almost bet that if you
really sat down and said like,
what are the requirements of what I need?
You might notice you could probably solve
it with a bunch of different solutions,
not just one.
The last one, and I do think that
the last one is very important, is,
how do we solve this problem, right?
If you know what problem
you're trying to solve,
then you should be able to propose
some type of solution to it.
And if you can't,
then your technical documents not done.
[LAUGH].
And you first need to figure
out how to solve this problem.